.\"Barracuda theme documentation
.TH "Help" "1" "Jun 5, 2021" "}><(({º>  1.7.1" "Barracuda"
.SH DESCRIPTION

Barracuda makes fish shell even more powerful and user-friendly. It's equipped with a set of useful functions and key bindings to speed up your workflow.

Also, the use of \fBPowerline Symbols\fP makes the visual experience smooth and fancy.

This theme is a fork of \fBoh-my-fish/theme-budspencer\fP (\fIhttps://github.com/oh-my-fish/theme-budspencer\fP), which means it keeps most of it's awesome features.

.SH COMPLEMENTARY APPS (Recommended):
.IP \(bu 2
\fITermux:API plug-in\fP (Both \fBTermux\fP and \fBTermux:API plug-in\fP should be downloaded from \fBF-Droid \fP(\fIhttps://f-droid.org\fP) as both apps most have the same PGP signature)
.IP \(bu 2
\fItermux-api\fP

.R apt install termux-api
.IP \(bu 2
\fInodejs\fP

.R apt install nodejs

.IP \(bu 2
\fIpv\fP

.R apt install pv

.SH CONFIGURATION

.SS Languages:

Barracuda theme can be displayed whether in Spanish or English.

To change language just type whether \fIspanish\fP or \fIenglish\fP on the command prompt.

.SS Colors:

Two color schemes for bright and dark environments are predefined. You can enable them with \fBdark\fP and \fBlight\fP, respectively.

.SS Command history:
Commands that shouldn't appear in the command history are defined by a universal list \fI$barracuda_nocmdhist\fP. Default:

set -U barracuda_nocmdhist c d ll ls m s

.SS Show Node version:

To show your current node version, do following in your Fish configs

\fBEnable:\fP

set -g barracuda_alt_environment "node -v"


\fBDisable:\fP

set -U barracuda_alt_environment


.SS Outer prompt segments:
.IP \(bu 4
Vi mode is indicated by color of outer segments, cursor color also changes if terminal supports it:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
\fIgreen\fP: \fBNORMAL\fP mode
.IP \(bu 4
\fIyellow\fP: \fBINSERT\fP mode
.IP \(bu 4
\fIblue\fP: \fBVISUAL\fP mode
.RE
.SS Left prompt segments:
.IP \(bu 4
Working directory
.IP \(bu 4
Prompt
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
Prompt line number
.IP \(bu 4
Language
.IP \(bu 4
Git repository information
.IP \(bu 4
Status symbols
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 4
✻: keep track of this shell session, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the number of the session within the sessions list
.IP \(bu 4
⭐: present working directory is in bookmark list, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the number of the bookmark
.IP \(bu 4
V: vi is parent process
.IP \(bu 4
R: [ranger][ranger] is parent process
.IP \(bu 4
⬜: there are background jobs, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the amount of background jobs
.IP \(bu 4
🔒: no write permissions in present working directory
.IP \(bu 4
⚔: there are tasks scheduled for this week, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the amount of weekly tasks
.IP \(bu 4
⚑: there are appointments for today, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the amount of appointments
.IP \(bu 4
✔: last command succeeded, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the status value
.IP \(bu 4
 ✘: last command failed, can be toggled with \fI#\fP to show the status value
.IP \(bu 4
⚡: superuser indicator
.RE
.IP \(bu 4
Active Python [virtual environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/). Requires [Virtual Fish](https://github.com/adambrenecki/virtualfish/)

.SH Right prompt segments:
.IP \(bu 4
Shows OS and other system info.

.SS Quickly navigate in history of working directories:

The function \fId\fP drops down a menu showing the history as enumerated list. Unlike
fish's builtin \fIdir\fP, \fId\fP does not show any duplicates. Enter a number to jump
to a directory within the list.

The following shortcuts need vi-mode:
.IP \(bu 4
Press \fBAlt+H\fP in \fBNORMAL\fP mode to change present working directory to previous working directory in history.
.IP \(bu 4
Press \fBAlt+L\fP in \fBNORMAL\fP mode to change present working directory to next working directory in history.

.SS Quickly navigate in command history:

The function \fIc\fP drops down a menu showing the command history as enumerated list similarly to
the \fId\fP function. Selections are also pasted into the X clipboard. It's possible
to load a command of a former prompt by giving the prompt line number as
argument.

.SS Bookmarks:

A bookmark can be created with \fImark\fP. It can be removed with \fIunmark\fP. 

\fIunmark\fP can take an argument to remove a specific bookmark in the bookmark list. 
Simply add the number of the bookmark you would like to remove as the argument.

Bookmarks are universal and thus persistant.
A new shell automatically changes working directory on startup to newest bookmark.
\fIm\fP is a function that drops down a menu showing the bookmarks as enumerated list
equivalently to \fId\fP.

The following shortcuts need vi mode:
.IP \(bu 4
Create a bookmark for present working directory with \fIm\fP in \fBNORMAL\fP mode.
.IP \(bu 4
Remove a bookmark for present working directory with \fIM\fP in \fBNORMAL\fP mode.

By default the shell will change to the directory of the latest bookmark on a new session. 
This can be disabled by adding the following line:

.R set -U barracuda_no_cd_bookmark

.SS Sessions:

Shell session can be stored with \fIs <session name>\fP. If a session with \fI<session name>\fP` already exists, the session with this name will be attached. If a session with
\fI<session name>\fP is already active within another terminal, this terminal will be
focussed.

A list of available sessions can be shown with \fIs\fP.

A session can be erased with \fIs -e <session name>\fP.

Type \fIs -d\fP to detach current session.

.SS Set window title:

Just type \fIwt <title>\fP.

.SS Ring the bell in order to set the urgency hint flag:

If you have configured your terminal application to use the visual bell, your
window manager will tell you when a job running in your shell has finished. You
don't need to check manually whether it's done.

If you have still activated the acoustic bell, you probably hate that feature.
Switch it off in that case:

.R set -U barracuda_nobell

.SS Termux Backup:

With this function it's possible to perform a full backup of system and user's files.

To create a new backup type:

.R backup [[-c][--create] [<file name>]

To list existing backups use:

.R backup [-l][--list]

To delete an existing backup:

.R backup [-d][--delete]

To show help:

.R backup [-h][--help]

Unfortunately this function can only perform backups. Restores have to be decompressed and copied manually.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marvin Eversley Silva (\fBMeVeRsS\fP)
E_mail: \fImeverss@gmail.com\fP
GitHub: \fIhttps://meverss.github.io/barracuda\fP
.fi